>> Mike North: We're going to add this
place search list component to this app so
that we can start to see
different states of like
having just type something in waiting for
results to come back and
then seeing the results
themselves come through it.
All right so and this is,
let me get my branches straight here.
So that was previously exercise seven, so
this is eight.
>> Mike North: So I've got a nice,
clean branch here to work with.
And we are working in autocomplete-2, so
we're in this folder here.
>> Mike North: So
the first thing we want to do is we
want to start running this app, right.
So, we're going to say
NPM start autocomplete-2.
And that'll fire the app up.
And at this point it is
running on local host 3000, so
if we refresh this is
what we see by default.
This should be your starting point.
I'm just gonna drop it in so
we can see that as we go.
And what we're seeing here, so we'll start
with where the app sort is bootstrapped.
And we can see we're rendering
an app inside the root element.
This file doesn't really change
much from exercise to exercise
the app component is different.
We introduce this as we
kick this exercise off.
And then the place search result list,
this is where we're stringifying whatever
arguments are passed into this component.
Now I could implement this as a sate list
component if I just let the outer app
handle all of that state.
>> Mike North: I'm going to make this,
well, I'll leave it stateless I guess.
We can treat the outer component as
the thing that is dealing with the state.
I'll just convert this
to an arrow function,
obviously we've got an any
there that we wanna get rid of.
So just for
fun I'm gonna create a new interface here.
>> Mike North: And
I'm gonna call this a result list props.
And it's gonna look a lot
like the app state.
>> Mike North: Right?
We need to know whether, we basically need
all of these things plus something else.
We need all of these things and
we also want to have a search
function to pass in.
So what I can is export this.
And just extend the interface in here.
>> Mike North: And vias code will let me,
it'll resolve that import for me.
So that's gonna be the interface
that I expect to be pass in.
And the one thing that we're
looking to see here is,
I wanna say it's an optional function,
that can be used to handle
that type in there.
I mean I make it optional
just because like for
custom purposes maybe we just wanna
pass a term indirectly or resultless.
And I don't want this to be like a hard
set thing that I absolutely must provide
when I create this component.
>> Mike North: So
this is going to be a function that takes
in a string and I don't care what it does.
I don't care what it returns.
>> Mike North: Give
ourselves some more space here.
Okay, so now,
the benefit of having structure around our
props here is I'm just gonna
call this low case p for props.
And that lets me do something like this.
Where I'm gonna see that
state come through, sorry,
I'm gonna see those props come through
as soon as I make TypeScript happy.
Now, where it is unhappy right now is,
I've now set this component
must be past a certain number of things,
or you're not allowed to work.
And down here obviously I'm
not following through on that.
So the first thing I want to do
because the things that this
place search result list needs.
They are a super set of the state on
this component at least for right now.
This kind of works.
Now if we added state to
this app component that this
place search result list needed.
We'd probably have to have
another interface in here
that was shared across these two things.
And things would get more complicated.
For right now it's pretty simple.
So we'll first spread this state.
So you're basically at everything
that's on the state object and
in addition to that.
We wanna provide this
handle search function and
we'll put something there and
actually I can just
pipe this right in this.trysearch
allright ,so now we're happy again.
So, what we gonna do here is,
I forgot to do one last thing.
So, when we pass a function
in like this and
our intent is to hook it up to an input
element, we're gonna run in to a problem.
And that is when, like you connect
a function to an input element,
usually the domain in itself or
the window is the calling context of
the function when it is invoked and
we want that,
in this function here we refer to this,
we refer to the calling context.
We can do something here to enforce
this to kind of make sure we set things
properly.
>> Mike North: And
say I the colon context here must be App,
it is of type App.
>> Mike North: So
now like as soon as I hook this up,
when I try to bind it here,
I'll bring in the HTML, we'll run into the
error and I'll show you how we can fix it.
So, the next thing I want is
the structure of my HTML.
I'll get that from my snapshots.
This looks reasonable.
Oop, that was not a copy, was it?
>> Mike North: Come on clipboard,
work for me.
>> Mike North: There we go.
All right, so we can get away from that.
>> Mike North: And
we're gonna hook up to
this on change event.
Let me fix this up a little, so
it's not horrendous to read.
>> Mike North: Snapshots are great but
they don't make good copy and
pasting I'm finding out.
>> Speaker 2: Can't you highlight it and
do format selected whatever it is.
>> Mike North: Yeah,
I probably can.
>> Speaker 2: It doesn't always work.
>> Mike North: But, not quite.
I can't do, there is key,
a key code that I've.
So my key code of the week to
try to remember for [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Command J for
me.
>> Mike North: For
collapse into one line?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Mike North: Yeah, so if we do that.
So beautiful!
That's my tip of the week.
Or what I'm trying to remember this week.
All right so now we've got the Rough
structure of this component.
And this is just an error message,
we don't need to give it any more
space than it currently has.
So onChange, we'll just hook up, and
we know that our props object has
this handle search function,
and it's gonna complain to us.
Because what it's basically telling me,
if we were to read into all of this, and
why don't we read into it, by the way?
We can see that a change event handler.
Okay, so we're diving into what the value
of this unchanged thing is expected to be.
So this is a change event handler,
which is an event handler,
which handles a synthetic event.
And basically,
we're not guaranteed at any point that
we're gonna get the right calling context.
There are no guarantees here.
>> Mike North: So,
essentially, like, actually, let's see
if we can dive in a little deeper here.
Is this gonna.
>> Mike North: Sometimes
they'll even declare that they're
gonna be called in the window context.
But I don't see that here.
>> Mike North: What I do see,
though, is that handle search is not
going to work in this situation.
And we would also need to do this,
event and
then
>> Mike North: And
this is possibly undefined,
so here's what we can do.
>> Mike North: Up here, we'll just say,
Let handler =.
>> Mike North: handleSearch
or.
>> Mike North: Nothing.
>> Mike North: And this is
complaining
>> Mike North: There we go.
It's too many parenthesis here.
So essentially, and
I can optimize this more and say like.
Const NO_OP = that.
Just say.
NO_OP.
we fall back to NO_OP.
So basically, we're gonna bind
a function to it either way.
Only in the event that we actually,
like, had something there,
could we make that work.
There is another way to do it, you could
have basically built an object on it, so
here's the other way.
We could have said handler equals this,
and
then if, handleSearch,
then we will say handler.onChange equals.
>> Mike North: I'll make this happen in
a second.
>> Mike North: So
we could have done something like this.
onChange is gonna be a, whatever this is,
reaction change event html input element.
>> Mike North: It's not letting me
have access to that.
So, we could just do, we'd have to,
so here's the overall strategy.
Build an object and spread it, and like,
if there's no, if it's an empty object
spreading it does nothing,
if there's a property on that object,
it'll add that key value paired to
whatever you're passing it into the input.
As you can see, this is complicated enough
that it's like, getting pretty fugly here.
So, what we're gonna do is just
go back to the original one.
Handler equals this or NO_OP.
We fall back to the NO_OP like this, so
no matter what,
this is a function, and now
we're saying the calling context avoid
is not assignable to this of type app.
Finally, we've run into a situation,
where we've been reminded of,
one of these things about react is when
we bind functions to dom elements,
or when we connect functions to
dom elements, we have to make sure
that in the component, the context in
which they're supposed to be called,
we have to take care of packaging
it with its calling context.
So this is the typical
pattern you see over and
over.
>> Mike North: And now it should be happy,
come on.
>> Mike North: No,
you're not happy?
>> Mike North: This calling context of
void.
>> Mike North: Hm.
All right, we'll let that go for a moment.
I'll see if I can get that working,
when we come back.
So in any case,
what we should now see is that we
can type something in, and we should
see that this function gets called,
and we will.
>> Mike North: My
dev tools hooked up to the browser again.
So we should see that
if I type something in,
there are some fetches going out, right?
And we see some data coming back,
and this, you know,
conceivably is businesses
that start with the letter A.
So great, that's fantastic.
So now it's time for us to deal with
the various scenarios that we could be in.
So really, like, it is the contents here
that are probably gonna end up changing.
We have a list of search results, and
you can see that in this first scenario,
we've got like an indication that
we're searching for something.
It's possible that we can
kind of abstract away,
like whatever this list of things is,
into a variable, and
do some switching based on state, and then
ultimately render that variable in there.
Something like this.
Let result set equal that, right?
So in this situation, like and
this will, sorry it's so narrow here.
This will work just as it has been, right?
It's the same exact thing
that we're seeing here.
But the difference is now,
based on whatever we want, we can put
different things in this result set.
So, for example, and we've got everything
that's available on this list of props,
whether we are in progress or
the search term is empty or whatever.
We've got that in order to make this work.
So we can just say, let result say equal.
Let's look at its type.
JSX element.
So result set, we'll
create an empty array, and
then if the search term is empty,
we can say result set,
push, and we'll just copy
this.
>> Mike North: We'll
say
>> Mike North: please enter something.
>> Mike North: Now,
else if (p.inProgress),
we could do something similar here.
>> Mike North: Saying this time searching
for,
>> Mike North: p.term, so
let's see if just those
two things work for now.
Please enter a search term above.
Thanks automatic, well,
that wasn't automatic semicolon,
that was developer semicolon.
So coffee, awesome, so now we're in
the third state that we failed to
handle which is we're no longer in
progress and we have some results.
So else, we,
I'm gonna be paranoid here and say
I don't wanna assume that this is the only
other possible state that we could be in.
So else if p.results,
>> Mike North: length > 0, now we can say
results.map and here we'll say,
what's the name of this other
component that we have?
It's a PlaceSearchResult.
>> Mike North: So
there's our PlaceSearchResult.
We can tell it to import for us, and now-
>> Mike North: We have an error,
what's going on?
>> Mike North: I need a key.
So any time you're dealing with React
arrays, you have to basically tell it.
You have to give it a unique identifier
for each item in the list, so that it can
know which one to re-render in the event
that the size of the list changes.
All we have to do here is say key=,
what would a good property be,
r.id, that seems like it might be unique.
>> Mike North: And it's not rendering.
I wonder why, you know why?
>> Mike North: We'll
just say the results that equals those.
>> Mike North: And
apparently it's gonna want,
because it's in array,
we'll call this one nothing.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
nothing and this one's in progress.
>> Mike North: So
even those that are in an array,
those'll make it happy.
Great, no more errors, and
there we have coffee or,
>> Mike North: So
now we see our results coming in.
So in essence, we have used typescript to
basically ensure that all along the way,
we're attaching the correct types of
functions to the correct dumb events.
We have assurances around these components
to get in the data that they state that
they need to get.
We even have this idea of an optional
like event handler that we pass in.
Where we're not obligated to
continually pass a no-op functions into
this just to run test,
or anything like that.
So this can work with or without it.
So this is really, really nice,
and it's super clear when
working with these components.
You know exactly what
it needs up front and
you're busted when you
don't play by the rules.
So this is state for components and
if there any questions online or
here, I'm happy to answer them
before we go with the next.
One more inception deeper into this thing.
>> Mike North: How do people feel,
for those of you who have used
React without typescript?
What are your thoughts on this?
Is it annoying extra bookkeeping or
is this additional safety?
How does this, how does this feel?
Yeah, I think so I like it,
all right-
>> Speaker 2: It helps you comment into it
and to see what you need in order to
render that template like new coders,
new programmers who didn't
necessarily write it.
You come and you're like,
this prop requires this interface.
And so
if I want to use this component somewhere,
I'm gonna have to hand it these keys.
>> Mike North: Absolutely, absolutely,
not just the type, but also the
requiredness of the arguments by default.
And so you're not worrying about
multiple error ID functions that,
it feels like the rules
are stated up front.
And the more experienced I get,
the more I appreciate constrained
programming environments.
I want to know what my constraints are so
I can design a good solution.
>> Speaker 2: So
much better than the PropTypes thing, so
much more articulate.
>> Mike North: Not only is it more
articulate, but it's more performant.
PropTypes, which solve the problem in a
similar way, that's that run time, right?
That's extra weight that you're
sending to your users, and
it's gonna slow your app down,
potentially.
And I don't feel like the feedback
you get is quite as nice.
>> Speaker 2: Well if it's rich at all,
it's really hard to write the code.
Sometimes they're very
hard to collaborate.
>> Mike North: Yes, any time you're
wrestling-
>> Speaker 2: Any graph of objects,
it's really
>> Mike North: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Yeah,
I have been there for sure.
All right, so let me commit this so anyone
who wishes to use it can take a look.
>> Speaker 2: 8,
>> Speaker 2: Okay, exercise 9, second to
last one.
>> Speaker 2: So
you can if you so choose,
check out femasters/9-begin and
you will get the solution
that I just checked in.
And this will serve as the starting
point for this next phase of the project